# CSV Files Meta Information

This repository contains meta information regarding the columns described in the following CSV files:

1. **dim_date**
2. **dim_hotels**
3. **dim_rooms**
4. **fact_aggregated_bookings**
5. **fact_bookings**

## Column Descriptions

### dim_date
1. **date:** Represents dates present in May, June, and July.
2. **mmm yy:** Represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
3. **week no:** Represents the unique week number for a particular date.
4. **day_type:** Represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekday.

### dim_hotels
1. **property_id:** Unique ID for each hotel.
2. **property_name:** Name of each hotel.
3. **category:** Determines the class (Luxury, Business) a particular hotel/property belongs to.
4. **city:** Represents the location of the hotel/property.

### dim_rooms
1. **room_id:** Represents the type of room (RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4) in a hotel.
2. **room_class:** Represents the class (Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential) a particular room type belongs to.

### fact_aggregated_bookings
1. **property_id:** Unique ID for each hotel.
2. **check_in_date:** All the check-in dates of the customers.
3. **room_category:** Represents the type of room (RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4) in a hotel.
4. **successful_bookings:** Represents all the successful room bookings for a particular room type in that hotel on a particular date.
5. **capacity:** Represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on a particular date.

### fact_bookings
1. **booking_id:** Unique Booking ID for each customer.
2. **property_id:** Unique ID for each hotel.
3. **booking_date:** Date on which the customer booked their rooms.
4. **check_in_date:** Date on which the customer checked in (entered) at the hotel.
5. **check_out_date:** Date on which the customer checked out (left) of the hotel.
6. **no_guests:** Number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
7. **room_category:** Represents the type of room (RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4) in a hotel.
8. **booking_platform:** Represents the way the customer booked their room.
9. **ratings_given:** Ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
10. **booking_status:** Represents whether the customer canceled their booking [Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel [Checked Out], or booked their room but did not stay in the hotel [No show].
11. **revenue_generated:** Amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
12. **revenue_realized:** Final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is canceled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted, and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then the full revenue generated will go to the hotel.

## Credits

This project is adapted from the Code Basics Resume Project Challenge. A special thanks to Code Basics for providing the project challenges and resources for continuous learning in data analytics.

[Code Basics Resume Project Challenge](https://codebasics.io/challenge/codebasics-resume-project-challenge)
